Purpose
This application is designed to provide a modern, user-friendly alternative to traditional scientific image analysis tools like ImageJ. It allows researchers to transform raw cell images into quantitative data using advanced algorithms and a more intuitive interface.

Why Build This?
ImageJ is widely used in the scientific community but has limitations, including its reliance on older algorithms and a dated, unintuitive user interface. This application addresses these shortcomings by integrating modern image processing techniques and providing a streamlined, accessible user experience.

Features
1. Cell Counting
Method: Utilizes OpenCV’s findContours() function to detect cell boundaries.
Output: Counts the number of cells by detecting contours. For clumped cells, the application estimates the cell count by dividing the contour area by the average cell size.
2. Cell Area (by Contours)
Method: Calculates the total area of all detected contours.
Output: Provides the total cell area based on contour detection.
3. Cell Area (by Threshold)
Method: Uses pixel intensity thresholds to calculate cell area, similar to ImageJ’s approach.
Output: Returns the cell area by summing pixels within the specified threshold range.
4. Image Processing & Transformations
Methods: Includes advanced edge detection algorithms like Sobel, Canny, and Laplace, commonly used in computer vision applications such as self-driving cars and motion tracking.
Output: Pre-processes images to enhance features and improve analysis accuracy.
Installation Instructions
Prerequisites
Python 3.8+
Pip (Python package installer)
Installation Steps
Clone the Repository:

git clone https://github.com/username/cell-analysis-app.git
cd cell-analysis-app
Create a Virtual Environment (Optional but recommended):

python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
Install Dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the Application:

python cell_analysis.py
Explore Additional Settings:
Fine-tune the analysis settings to suit your specific image conditions.

Contribution Guidelines
We welcome contributions to enhance the functionality and usability of this application. Please submit pull requests with detailed descriptions of the changes.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.